1. What is React?
->React is an open-source JavaScript library developed by Facebook.
->It focuses on building UI components and managing dynamic views in web applications.
->Unlike frameworks (like Angular), React only handles the view layer; developers often combine it with other libraries for routing or state management.

2. Library vs Framework
React = Library

Provides tools for building UI but leaves architecture decisions to developers.

Frameworks (e.g., Angular, Vue)

Provide a complete structure with routing, state management, and built-in solutions.

Why React is a library?

It’s flexible, unopinionated, and can be integrated into existing projects without enforcing strict rules.

3. What is a Component?
A component is a reusable, independent piece of UI (like a button, form, or navbar).

Components can be functional (using functions and hooks) or class-based (older style).

4. Why are Components Important?
Reusability → Write once, use multiple times.

Maintainability → Easier to debug and update.

Separation of concerns → Each component handles its own logic and UI.

Scalability → Large apps can be broken into smaller, manageable parts.

5. What is JSX?
JSX (JavaScript XML) is a syntax extension that lets you write HTML-like code inside JavaScript.

Example:

jsx
const element = <h1>Hello World</h1>;
JSX is not HTML; it compiles to React.createElement() calls.

Benefits: Readable, declarative, and integrates logic with UI.

6. What is the Virtual DOM?
The Virtual DOM (VDOM) is a lightweight JavaScript representation of the Real DOM.

When state changes:

React creates a new Virtual DOM tree.

Compares it with the previous tree (diffing).

Updates only the changed parts in the Real DOM.

This makes updates fast and efficient.


7. What is the Real DOM?
The Real DOM is the actual browser-rendered structure of HTML elements.

Updating the Real DOM directly is slow, because each change triggers style recalculation, layout, and repaint.

React minimizes these costly operations by batching updates via the Virtual DOM.


8. What is Reconciliation?
Reconciliation is the process React uses to compare the new Virtual DOM with the old one and update only what’s necessary in the Real DOM.

Uses diffing algorithms and keys for efficient updates.

Example: If a <div> changes to a <span>, React destroys the old subtree and rebuilds a new one.